readme.md, before:


<h1 align="center">PWMetrics</h1>
<p align="center">
  <img title="Progressive web metrics" src='https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/6231516/22849188/6f84c038-f003-11e6-8990-b14f3b916e54.png' />
</p>
<p align="center">Progressive web metrics at your fingertipz. 💅</p>
<p align="center">CLI tool and lib to gather performance metrics via <a href="https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a>.

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/39191/19417867/7aead922-93af-11e6-88ec-917dad6e89d2.png)

 Documentation on these metrics in the works. If you hit bugs in the metrics collection, report at [Lighthouse issues](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/issues).
 [How to use article](https://medium.com/@denar90/easy-progressive-web-metrics-9afa5ed857c2)

### Install [![NPM pwmetrics package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pwmetrics.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/pwmetrics)
```sh
$ yarn global add pwmetrics
# or
$ yarn add --dev pwmetrics
```


### CLI Usage

```sh
$ pwmetrics <url> <flags>

pwmetrics http://example.com/

# --runs=n     Does n runs (eg. 3, 5), and reports the median run's numbers.
#              Median run selected by run with the median TTI.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --runs=3

# --json       Reports json details to stdout.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --json

# returns...
# {runs: [{
#   "timings": [
#     {
#       "name": "First Contentful Paint",
#       "value": 289.642
#     },
#     {
#       "name": "First Meaningful Paint",
#       "value": 289.6
#     },
#     ...

# --output-path       File path to save results.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --output-path='pathToFile/file.json'

# --config        Provide configuration (defaults to `package.json`). See _Defining config_ below.
pwmetrics --config=pwmetrics-config.js

# --submit       Submit results to Google Sheets. See _Defining submit_ below.
pwmetrics --submit

# --upload       Upload Lighthouse traces to Google Drive. See _Defining upload_ below.
pwmetrics --upload

# --view       View Lighthouse traces, which were uploaded to Google Drive, in DevTools. See _Defining view_ below.
pwmetrics --view

##
## CLI options useful for CI
##

# --expectations  Assert metrics results against provides values. See _Defining expectations_ below.
pwmetrics --expectations

# --fail-on-error  Exit PWMetrics with an error status code after the first unfilled expectation.
pwmetrics --fail-on-error


```

### Defining config

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --config
```

`package.json`
```
...
  "pwmetrics": {
    "url": "http://example.com/",
    // other configuration options
  }
...
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`

```js
module.exports = {
  url: 'http://example.com/',
   // other configuration options. Read _All available configuration options_
}
```

### All available configuration options

`pwmetrics-config.js`

```js
const METRICS = require('pwmetrics/lib/metrics');

module.exports = {
  url: 'http://example.com/',
  flags: { // AKA feature flags
    runs: 3, // number or runs
    submit: true, // turn on submitting to Google Sheets
    upload: true, // turn on uploading to Google Drive
    view: true, // open uploaded traces to Google Drive in DevTools
    expectations: true, // turn on assertion metrics results against provides values
    json: true, // not required, set to true if you want json output
    outputPath: 'stdout', // not required, only needed if you have specified json output, can be "stdout" or a path
    chromePath: '/Applications/Google\ Chrome\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome\ Canary', //optional path to specific Chrome location
    chromeFlags: '', // custom flags to pass to Chrome. For a full list of flags, see http://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/.
    // Note: pwmetrics supports all flags from Lighthouse
    showOutput: true, // not required, set to false for pwmetrics not output any console.log messages
    failOnError: false // not required, set to true if you want to fail the process on expectations errors
  },
  expectations: {
    // these expectations values are examples, for your cases set your own
    // it's not required to use all metrics, you can use just a few of them
    // Read _Available metrics_ where all keys are defined
    [METRICS.TTFCP]: {
      warn: '>=1500',
      error: '>=2000'
    },
    [METRICS.TTFMP]: {
      warn: '>=2000',
      error: '>=3000'
    },
    [METRICS.TTI]: {
      ...
    },
    [METRICS.TTFCPUIDLE]: {
      ...
    },
    [METRICS.SI]: {
      ...
    },
  },
  sheets: {
    type: 'GOOGLE_SHEETS', // sheets service type. Available types: GOOGLE_SHEETS
    options: {
      spreadsheetId: 'sheet_id',
      tableName: 'data',
      uploadMedian: false // not required, set to true if you want to upload only the median run
    }
  },
  clientSecret: {
    // Data object. Can be get
    // either
    // by (using everything in step 1 here)[https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs#step_1_turn_on_the_api_name]
    //
    // example format:
    //
    // installed: {
    //   client_id: "sample_client_id",
    //   project_id: "sample_project_id",
    //   auth_uri: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
    //   token_uri: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token",
    //   auth_provider_x509_cert_url: "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
    //   client_secret: "sample_client_secret",
    //   redirect_uris: [
    //     "url",
    //     "http://localhost"
    //   ]
    // }
    //
    // or
    // by (using everything in step 1 here)[https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs]
  }
}
```

### Defining expectations

> [Recipes](/recipes) for using with CI

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --expectations
```

`package.json`
```
...
  "pwmetrics": {
    "url": "http://example.com/",
    "expectations": {
      ...
    }
  }
...
```


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --expectations --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

### Defining submit

Submit results to Google Sheets

*Instructions:*

- Copy [this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17jgt_uKxm4WvROmKMfSDzhdCAstNvyaiDP_k2XqzgD0).
- Copy the ID of the spreadsheet into the config as value of `sheets.options.spreadsheetId` property.
- Setup Google Developer project and get credentials. ([everything in step 1 here](https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs#step_1_turn_on_the_api_name))
- Take a `client_secret` and put it into the config as value of `clientSecret` property.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --submit
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --submit --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'sheets': {
    ...
  },
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```


### Defining upload

Upload Lighthouse traces to Google Drive

*Instructions:*

- Setup Google Developer project and get credentials. ([everything in step 1 here](https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs))
- Take a `client_secret` and put it into the config as value of `clientSecret` property.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --upload
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --upload --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```

### View Lighthouse traces in timeline-viewer

Show Lighthouse traces in timeline-viewer.

> Required to use `upload` flag

[timeline-viewer](https://chromedevtools.github.io/timeline-viewer/) - Shareable URLs for your Chrome DevTools Timeline traces.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --upload --view
```


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in your-own-file.js
pwmetrics --upload --view --config=your-own-file.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```

#### Available metrics:

All metrics now are stored in separate constant object located in `pwmetrics/lib/metrics/metrics`;

```js
// lib/metrics/metrics.ts
{
  METRICS: {
    TTFCP: 'firstContentfulPaint',
    TTFMP: 'firstMeaningfulPaint',
    TTFCPUIDLE: 'firstCPUIdle',
    TTI: 'interactive',
    SI: 'speedIndex'
  }
}
```

Read article [Performance metrics. What’s this all about?](https://medium.com/@denar90/performance-metrics-whats-this-all-about-1128461ad6b) which is decoding this metrics.

### API

```js
const PWMetrics = require('pwmetrics');

const options = {
  flags: {
    runs: 3, // number or runs
    submit: true, // turn on submitting to Google Sheets
    upload: true, // turn on uploading to Google Drive
    view: true, // open uploaded traces to Google Drive in DevTools
    expectations: true, // turn on assertation metrics results against provides values
    chromeFlags: '--headless' // run in headless Chrome
  }
};

const pwMetrics = new PWMetrics('http://example.com/', options); // _All available configuration options_ can be used as `options`
pwMetrics.start(); // returns Promise

```

#### Options

<table class="table" width="100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="10%">Option</th>
      <th width="15%">Type</th>
      <th width="40%">Default</th>
      <th width="25%">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
    <td style="text-align: center;">flags<sup><b>*</b></sup></td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
{
  runs: 1,
  submit: false,
  upload: false,
  view: false,
  expectations: false,
  disableCpuThrottling: false,
  chromeFlags: ''
}
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>Feature flags</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">expectations</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>See <a href="#defining-expectations">Defining expectations</a> above.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">sheets</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>See <a href="#defining-submit">Defining submit</a> above.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">clientSecret</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>
        Client secrete data generated by Google API console.
        To setup Google Developer project and get credentials apply <a href="https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs">everything in step 1 here</a>.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<sup>*</sup>pwmetrics supports all flags from Lighthouse. See [here](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/#cli-options) for the complete list.


### Recipes

- [gulp](/recipes/gulp/gulpfile.js)


### License

Apache 2.0. Google Inc.

Commit message:

Feat: add feature flag launchChrome
- allows to use puppeteer eg. to log into the tested page first

readme.md, after:


<h1 align="center">PWMetrics</h1>
<p align="center">
  <img title="Progressive web metrics" src='https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/6231516/22849188/6f84c038-f003-11e6-8990-b14f3b916e54.png' />
</p>
<p align="center">Progressive web metrics at your fingertipz. 💅</p>
<p align="center">CLI tool and lib to gather performance metrics via <a href="https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/">Lighthouse</a>.

![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/39191/19417867/7aead922-93af-11e6-88ec-917dad6e89d2.png)

 Documentation on these metrics in the works. If you hit bugs in the metrics collection, report at [Lighthouse issues](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/issues).
 [How to use article](https://medium.com/@denar90/easy-progressive-web-metrics-9afa5ed857c2)

### Install [![NPM pwmetrics package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/pwmetrics.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/pwmetrics)
```sh
$ yarn global add pwmetrics
# or
$ yarn add --dev pwmetrics
```


### CLI Usage

```sh
$ pwmetrics <url> <flags>

pwmetrics http://example.com/

# --runs=n     Does n runs (eg. 3, 5), and reports the median run's numbers.
#              Median run selected by run with the median TTI.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --runs=3

# --json       Reports json details to stdout.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --json

# returns...
# {runs: [{
#   "timings": [
#     {
#       "name": "First Contentful Paint",
#       "value": 289.642
#     },
#     {
#       "name": "First Meaningful Paint",
#       "value": 289.6
#     },
#     ...

# --output-path       File path to save results.
pwmetrics http://example.com/ --output-path='pathToFile/file.json'

# --config        Provide configuration (defaults to `package.json`). See _Defining config_ below.
pwmetrics --config=pwmetrics-config.js

# --submit       Submit results to Google Sheets. See _Defining submit_ below.
pwmetrics --submit

# --upload       Upload Lighthouse traces to Google Drive. See _Defining upload_ below.
pwmetrics --upload

# --view       View Lighthouse traces, which were uploaded to Google Drive, in DevTools. See _Defining view_ below.
pwmetrics --view

##
## CLI options useful for CI
##

# --expectations  Assert metrics results against provides values. See _Defining expectations_ below.
pwmetrics --expectations

# --fail-on-error  Exit PWMetrics with an error status code after the first unfilled expectation.
pwmetrics --fail-on-error


```

### Defining config

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --config
```

`package.json`
```
...
  "pwmetrics": {
    "url": "http://example.com/",
    // other configuration options
  }
...
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`

```js
module.exports = {
  url: 'http://example.com/',
   // other configuration options. Read _All available configuration options_
}
```

### All available configuration options

`pwmetrics-config.js`

```js
const METRICS = require('pwmetrics/lib/metrics');

module.exports = {
  url: 'http://example.com/',
  flags: { // AKA feature flags
    runs: 3, // number or runs
    submit: true, // turn on submitting to Google Sheets
    upload: true, // turn on uploading to Google Drive
    view: true, // open uploaded traces to Google Drive in DevTools
    expectations: true, // turn on assertion metrics results against provides values
    json: true, // not required, set to true if you want json output
    outputPath: 'stdout', // not required, only needed if you have specified json output, can be "stdout" or a path
    launchChrome: false, // don't launch chrome. Useful when puppeteer is used to login
    chromePath: '/Applications/Google\ Chrome\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome\ Canary', //optional path to specific Chrome location
    chromeFlags: '', // custom flags to pass to Chrome. For a full list of flags, see http://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/.
    // Note: pwmetrics supports all flags from Lighthouse
    showOutput: true, // not required, set to false for pwmetrics not output any console.log messages
    failOnError: false // not required, set to true if you want to fail the process on expectations errors
  },
  expectations: {
    // these expectations values are examples, for your cases set your own
    // it's not required to use all metrics, you can use just a few of them
    // Read _Available metrics_ where all keys are defined
    [METRICS.TTFCP]: {
      warn: '>=1500',
      error: '>=2000'
    },
    [METRICS.TTFMP]: {
      warn: '>=2000',
      error: '>=3000'
    },
    [METRICS.TTI]: {
      ...
    },
    [METRICS.TTFCPUIDLE]: {
      ...
    },
    [METRICS.SI]: {
      ...
    },
  },
  sheets: {
    type: 'GOOGLE_SHEETS', // sheets service type. Available types: GOOGLE_SHEETS
    options: {
      spreadsheetId: 'sheet_id',
      tableName: 'data',
      uploadMedian: false // not required, set to true if you want to upload only the median run
    }
  },
  clientSecret: {
    // Data object. Can be get
    // either
    // by (using everything in step 1 here)[https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs#step_1_turn_on_the_api_name]
    //
    // example format:
    //
    // installed: {
    //   client_id: "sample_client_id",
    //   project_id: "sample_project_id",
    //   auth_uri: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
    //   token_uri: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token",
    //   auth_provider_x509_cert_url: "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
    //   client_secret: "sample_client_secret",
    //   redirect_uris: [
    //     "url",
    //     "http://localhost"
    //   ]
    // }
    //
    // or
    // by (using everything in step 1 here)[https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs]
  }
}
```

### Defining expectations

> [Recipes](/recipes) for using with CI

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --expectations
```

`package.json`
```
...
  "pwmetrics": {
    "url": "http://example.com/",
    "expectations": {
      ...
    }
  }
...
```


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --expectations --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

### Defining submit

Submit results to Google Sheets

*Instructions:*

- Copy [this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17jgt_uKxm4WvROmKMfSDzhdCAstNvyaiDP_k2XqzgD0).
- Copy the ID of the spreadsheet into the config as value of `sheets.options.spreadsheetId` property.
- Setup Google Developer project and get credentials. ([everything in step 1 here](https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs#step_1_turn_on_the_api_name))
- Take a `client_secret` and put it into the config as value of `clientSecret` property.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --submit
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --submit --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'sheets': {
    ...
  },
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```


### Defining upload

Upload Lighthouse traces to Google Drive

*Instructions:*

- Setup Google Developer project and get credentials. ([everything in step 1 here](https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs))
- Take a `client_secret` and put it into the config as value of `clientSecret` property.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --upload
```

```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in pwmetrics-config.js
pwmetrics --upload --config=pwmetrics-config.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```

### View Lighthouse traces in timeline-viewer

Show Lighthouse traces in timeline-viewer.

> Required to use `upload` flag

[timeline-viewer](https://chromedevtools.github.io/timeline-viewer/) - Shareable URLs for your Chrome DevTools Timeline traces.


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in package.json
pwmetrics --upload --view
```


```sh
# run pwmetrics with config in your-own-file.js
pwmetrics --upload --view --config=your-own-file.js
```

`pwmetrics-config.js`
```js
module.exports = {
  'url': 'http://example.com/',
  'clientSecret': {
    ...
  }
}
```

#### Available metrics:

All metrics now are stored in separate constant object located in `pwmetrics/lib/metrics/metrics`;

```js
// lib/metrics/metrics.ts
{
  METRICS: {
    TTFCP: 'firstContentfulPaint',
    TTFMP: 'firstMeaningfulPaint',
    TTFCPUIDLE: 'firstCPUIdle',
    TTI: 'interactive',
    SI: 'speedIndex'
  }
}
```

Read article [Performance metrics. What’s this all about?](https://medium.com/@denar90/performance-metrics-whats-this-all-about-1128461ad6b) which is decoding this metrics.

### API

```js
const PWMetrics = require('pwmetrics');

const options = {
  flags: {
    runs: 3, // number or runs
    submit: true, // turn on submitting to Google Sheets
    upload: true, // turn on uploading to Google Drive
    view: true, // open uploaded traces to Google Drive in DevTools
    expectations: true, // turn on assertation metrics results against provides values
    chromeFlags: '--headless' // run in headless Chrome
  }
};

const pwMetrics = new PWMetrics('http://example.com/', options); // _All available configuration options_ can be used as `options`
pwMetrics.start(); // returns Promise

```

#### Options

<table class="table" width="100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="10%">Option</th>
      <th width="15%">Type</th>
      <th width="40%">Default</th>
      <th width="25%">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
    <td style="text-align: center;">flags<sup><b>*</b></sup></td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td>
        <pre>
{
  runs: 1,
  submit: false,
  upload: false,
  view: false,
  expectations: false,
  disableCpuThrottling: false,
  chromeFlags: ''
}
        </pre>
      </td>
      <td>Feature flags</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">expectations</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>See <a href="#defining-expectations">Defining expectations</a> above.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">sheets</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>See <a href="#defining-submit">Defining submit</a> above.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center;">clientSecret</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">Object</td>
      <td style="text-align: center;">{}</td>
      <td>
        Client secrete data generated by Google API console.
        To setup Google Developer project and get credentials apply <a href="https://developers.google.com/drive/v3/web/quickstart/nodejs">everything in step 1 here</a>.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<sup>*</sup>pwmetrics supports all flags from Lighthouse. See [here](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/#cli-options) for the complete list.


### Recipes

- [gulp](/recipes/gulp/gulpfile.js)


### License

Apache 2.0. Google Inc.
